---
layout: post
title: "Om Svensk Underrättelsetjänst | Book review"
date: 2017-08-18
comments: true
categories:
---

I recently finished reading the book 
["Om Svensk Underrättelsetjänst"](http://www.adlibris.com/se/bok/om-svensk-underrattelsetjanst-9789173291330)(About Swedish Counter-Intelligence) 
written by the author Jan-Olof Grahn who was head over the military oriented part of the 
[Swedish National Defence Radio Establishment](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Defence_Radio_Establishment) during the later part of the cold war.
The book is only available in Swedish but I will write the review in English for consistency.

As the book title says it will go into how the Swedish Counter-Intelligence Community works 
and include discussions about it.

The book is structured into short chapters, each with a clear purpose, which makes it 
an easy and giving read.
Naturally some chapters were more interesting for me while others were not.

Some of the most giving chapters:
* Om legalitet och moral (about legality and moral)
* Om framtiden (about the future)
* Om felbedömningar (about miscalculations)

The auther is highly skilled in presenting the reader with arguments why 
it is and disputes what he does not agrees with. This makes the book a refreshing read 
and I would like even more such content.

Other than that, the book are consise and well written.

While the book gives a good read about how Counter-Intelligence Organisations 
work with a focus on Sweden it does not give any material how to actually perform 
Counter-Intelligence work as an analyst, this is probably out of the scope for the book 
and alternative reading material is needed.
